Paper points:

Page 1:
tacticle feedback can be restored by ICMS(intercortical microstimulation) of the somatosensory cortex
location percepts depends on electrode positioning + freuency + amplitude.
tests done on patients with cervical spinal cord injury
only 1 electrode => weak and confusing perception
more electrodes => localised and intense perception
manual interactions rely on tactile feedback
amputees dont like myoelectric limbs that do not provide feedback
adding feedback may improve brian connectivity with limb
contact location of bionic limb -> electrode position on S1(somatosensory cortext)
force of contact -> amplitude intensity

Page 2:
it is unknown if repeated calibrations are needed. Some studies say the mappings are stable
study has 3 objectives  -> quantify spatial and distribution of sensations evoked by ICMS
			-> compare range of electrode intensity with that of natural touch
			-> quanitfy functional implications on real patients
microelectrode arrays implanted in Brodmanns area 1 of somatosensory cortex
they leveraged the residual sensation of participants to find where the electrodes Receptive Fields are
the electrodes PF(perceptive field) matches the RF(receptive field) of the neuron (basically it sends similar signals to the ones sent by the neuron)
they found that the size and intensity of PF can be shaped by amplitude OR frequency
when electrodes had overlapping PF => more intense and localized stim
1 electrode => weak sensaton
more electrodes => powerful, localized sensation, similar to natural touch
4 electrode arrays were planted => 2 in the arm area of the motor cortext, 2 in the Brodmans area of S1
participants drew where they felt the stimulus
study was done over several years
fig 2a shows for example how the participant drew where they felt the stim
fig 2b shows all of the drawings
fig 2c shows average of all of the drawings over the years
they tested over the years 2-7 years and found that the location of evoked response remains the same. Therefore having reliable mappings that do not need to be remaped
changes in PF reported in 1 day was equivalent to changes of PF recorder over the years => this means that the change of PF is because of trial errors

Page 4:
the sensations moves around the centroid and not randomly (participants felt the same sensation near the same spot and not in a totally different place)
they found the 'finger' axes by projecting the electrodes int 2d and 1d. They could chose each finger by moving along a straight line either perpendicular or the other way

Page 5:
they used patients with residual sensation to map PF -> somatotopic homunculus locatin. Compared RF with PF
RF is 6.5 times larger than PF. PF size scales with RF size(only for 1 participant)
conclusion: PF of an electrode is determined by RF o fthe neurons arount the electrode tip

Page 6:
amplitude increased PF area more than frequency
more neuron activation => more sensation
they interweaved single and multi-electrode signals to find which is more stimualant. 
they added the individual PFs and compared to multi PF => good match of 0.61 correlation
Conclusion: when you stimulate multiple electrodes => same feeling as stimulating individual electrodes and ADDING up the feelings

Page 7:
users wanted more stimulation to confirm sensation position when linked to a bionic arm
single electrode stimulation => 30% failure to feel vs multiple electrode => 0% failure to feel
when feeling, single electrode => 42% failure to WHERE they feel vs multiple elctrode => 7% failure to WHERE they fel
same conclusion: single electrode bad, more electrode good
sensation scales with ICMS amplitude but only to a certain extent. It scales liniarly
But real world sensatrions scale like a power function(fast at the start, slow at the heaviest force)

Page 8:






Points to talk about or explain
What is somatosensory cortex ?
What is and how does ICMS work ?
What is cervical spinal cord injury? How does it affect the human? Does it make the limbs numb and unable to move?
What is an electrode ? What is the procedure of inserting an electrode ? Talk about advancements, maybe the neuralink surgeon robot. What is the width of the electrode and how does that affect it.
What is Brodmanns area 1 ? Why is it important ? Why there?
What is an electrodes receptive field ? (RF)
What is PF and what is RF ? 
What is biomimicry ? What can ppl do with it ? Limitations ? Achivements ?












